Tonight, a senior Hamas leader is dead
amid serious concerns
the war in the Middle East
is about to get bigger.
Salah al-Hariri, a top official
in Hamas's military and political wings,
killed in Beirut.
Hamas says the leader was killed
by an Israeli airstrike.
Israel, however,
is not taking responsibility.
And this is all happening
as Iran has dispatched
a naval destroyer to the Red Sea.
Tensions there escalating
following a series of attacks
by the Iranian backed Houthi militia,
including against the United States.
And now the US Navy has killed Houthis
for the first time
since this conflict broke out,
sinking three
the boots at boats, rather,
after being attacked in the Red Sea
this weekend.
Oren Liebermann is OUTFRONT tonight.
At war in the U.S.
really getting drawn further
and further into this conflict.
Iranian involvement clearly evident.
What is the U.S. going to do next?
Eric, the
Biden administration's
position is
they don't
want to see a regional escalation.
They don't want to see
a widening of the war.
But clearly, it's not just up to the U.S.
to make a unilateral decision
in this case.
The events we've seen over
the course of the past couple of days
make a widening of the war,
an escalation, a growing possibility,
not only, as you pointed out
over the weekend,
the US military and U.S.
attack helicopters sinking
three fast attack boats
that were going
after a commercial vessel
and killing the cruise of those
for the first time
since the war,
but also
now the killing of such a brewery,
a senior Hamas militant in Beirut.
So the US has to watch all of this.
The U.S.
does have the backing
of an international coalition
in the Red Sea,
and that gives it essentially
some weight here in its actions. The U.S.
monitoring that Iranian Navy vessel
that's in the Red Sea from the U.S.
is a position.
It is an international waterway,
a critical one
that so they're allowed to be there.
But the U.S.
military will keep a very close
eye on them
as it watches where this all goes.
For the killing of Saleh
al-Hariri, who you saw there
with the Ayatollah, the leader of Iran.
We've seen promises
of revenge
and condemnation
from the Iranians, from Hamas,
Hezbollah and even some others.
The question
now, of course, what do they do?
And they have a number of options.
All of these Iranian proxies attack U.S.
forces in Iraq and Syria.
Go after U.S.
vessels in the Red Sea with the Houthis
there from Yemen, attack Israel.
Iran doesn't really see
much of a difference between the U.S.
and Israel.
So this is all possibilities
that we have to watch out for
and that the U.S. is watching out for.
Now, as you know,
Israel hasn't
officially taken responsibility
for the killing of Salah
al-Hariri in Beirut.
Israeli officials
have been a bit coy about this,
but it is worth pointing to this
tweet from Danny Danon,
a current member of Knesset
and the former Israeli
ambassador to the U.N..
He said on Twitter,
I congratulate
the IDF, the Shin Bet, the Mossad
and the security forces for killing
senior Hamas official Salah
al-Hariri in Beirut.
Anyone who was involved
in the October 7th
massacre should know
that we will reach them
and settle the account with them.
So Eric are pretty clear there.
It's also worth
remembering that Benjamin Netanyahu
promised Israel would go
after Hamas leaders wherever they are.
Yeah, that's for sure.
And appreciate the reporting as always.
Thank you.
OUTFRONT now, retired
Army Lieutenant General Mark Hertling.
Good to see you tonight.
So let's pick up right there where
we're often left off.
The senior Hamas
leader, general,
who was killed by this strike
in southern Lebanon.
Also a long time
military political leader in Hamas.
How likely
do you think
some sort of retaliation
is in the next 24 to 48 hours?
This is what Oren's reporting.
First of all, Erica, is
it was phenomenal.
But this is the kind of thing
that the Biden administration
has been worried about.
They have been trying to repress
any kind of expansion of this conflict.
And this strike in Beirut against
the Hamas leader is
is not going to help that at all.
You also have to consider
that the Hezbollah leader,
Nasrallah, has said
that any strikes
inside of Lebanon by Israel,
especially in Beirut,
will cause serious
repercussions for the Israelis.
This is the Hezbollah leader.
What Israel has been trying to do
is not allow this
to come into a multi-front war
but we're already seeing that
they are fighting hard in Gaza.
They are
they have been fighting hard
in northern Israel against the Hezbollah
terrorists coming out of
southern Lebanon.
They've now struck in Beirut and Beirut.
They've had these
missile attacks from Yemen.
We've seen PMF forces in Iraq and Syria
continue to try and attempt
to influence this operation.
This is a
this is a tinderbox right now, Erica.
And as we look at this
tinderbox, too, as we
look at the broader
region here,
the Iranian naval destroyer
now heading to the Red Sea.
Days after the U.S.
sunk, three U.S.
ships killing all on board.
Can the U.S.
at this point
avoid getting drawn in deeper?
It's going to be challenging.
It's going to depend on what that Iranian
naval vessel does in the Red Sea.
Those are international waters.
There's a lot of transportation and
elements going through that
that are noncombatant
You know, the strike
against the three Houthi
rebel boats
that have tried to attack that attack
the Maersk
carrier the other day is an indicator
of what the Iranians are attempting
to do
by putting a naval destroyer
in this area, confronting an entire
carrier strike group
from the United States.
It's just it has the potential
for explosive activity
and it's going to be very dangerous.
The naval forces in that area
are going to have to watch their step
and be very careful about what they do.
I'd also like to get your take on
what we're seeing in Ukraine.
I mean, this really astounding
number of Russian missile
and drone attacks on Ukraine,
at least 500 over the past five days.
That's according to President Lenski.
We know at least five
people killed today, at least 53.
The number stands out
now killed from Friday's massive attacks.
We are nearly two years
now into this war.
How do you read the message
that Putin is sending to Ukraine?
Well,
first of all,
from the tactical perspective,
what Russia has been trying to do
is I use a basketball term,
flood the zone.
They are trying to put as many missiles
in the air as they can.
And there are all different types
coming from multiple directions
and multiple
platforms, air, sea and ground.
They are some of the types of missiles.
The hypersonic
missiles are very advanced.
But Ukraine has been very successful
in shooting most of them down.
Today's
activity, Ukraine was very successful.
But what I would say is two
things are happening.
First of all, Russia is continuing
their strategic approach
to try and affect
Ukrainian infrastructure to make it
a harsh winter for Ukrainian citizens
to continue to say,
even though the United States
and others may be balking,
we're still going to attack. Great.
And what's happening from
the Ukrainian side
is they just don't have
enough air defense to cover everything,
you know, air defense or points weapon
systems, Erica.
That means they have to be placed
in a location to guard a specific target.
So that means you can't
defend everywhere.
So the reason Russia is attacking
so many different targets
is they are trying to figure out where
Ukraine is soft
and where they have their defenses.
And I think that's going to continue
on for the next couple of days.
And it just shows the importance
of the United States
getting the Congress back and passing
this bill, which will give
more ammo and arms to Ukraine
during this period of time.
And this is a critical period.
Lieutenant General Mark Hertling,
always appreciate your insight.
Thank you.